We are ready learnt how to select data from the database using these select statement in esky well to
insert data into the database.
We use the insert into statement.
We start an ESC you will insert in two statement with the words insert in two followed by the table
name.
Then we added the values keyword followed by a list of values in brackets.
We have to put a value for each column in the table and they are a has to match the ardour of the columns
in the table.
Let's give this a try will insert a rijkaard into our article table.
The columns are idae title content and published at then that order.
So we put insert into article and then the list of values like that when we run this.
The rijkaard is inserted into the database and there it is.
It's also possible to only insert data into specific columns.
To do this we add a list of columns in brackets after the table name and the list of values has to match
the number and order of these columns.
Let's try that.
We'll just specify the title and content columns to be inserted.
And we only need to supply values for those columns when we run this.
The rijkaard is inserted and here is the new record for the columns that we didn't specify.
Values have been inserted after Mattingly.
The idees column isn't.
After increment column so unique value for this column will be calculated automatically.
Naturally the next available idae.
This is a common technique for after increment.
I did columns to let the database insert values aftermath hickley the published at column is allowed
to be NULL.
So this column is assigned the value you know.
If you try an insert to rijkaard and don't include columns that can't be assigned automatically then
you'll get an error.
You can also insert multiple records at once with one insert statement.
You can add multiple sets of values separated by commas.
If columns are specified the number and odd values in each set has to match the column specified.
Let's give that a try with this esky U L we can insert two ecards with one insert statement.
There they are.
If you want to specifically insert a null value in a column used in nold keyword.
This is only allowed if the column allows nulls.
For example in our article table the published at column allows nulls.
So if we insert a new rijkaard
no will be inserted into that column with this escudo.
And there it is.
If you try and insert a null value into a column that doesn't allow it then you'll get an error.
Note how the list of values numbers and no are typed as they are strings and other values like daytime's
need to be enclosed in single quotes.
Some database servers will that you use double quotes but single quotes is the standard.
If you want to insert a string value that contains a single quote like this then you need to escape
that single quote by putting a backslash before it like that.
If we run this.
There's the rijkaard with a quote in this column.